docs: Added written proposal process. (#4366)
thanos-io/thanos: docs/contributing/proposal-process.md

---
type: docs
title: Proposal Process
menu: contributing
---

# Proposals Process

If there is no problem, there is no need for changing anything, no need for a proposal. This might feel trivial, but we should first ask ourselves this question before even thinking about writing a proposal.

It takes time to propose an idea, find consensus and implement more significant concepts, so let's not use the time before we feel it's worth it. Even good ideas sometimes have to wait for a good moment to discuss them.

Let's assume the idea sounds interesting to you; what to do next, where to propose it? How to review it? Follow the algorithm below:

![where](../img/thanos_proposal_flow.png)

> > Note: It's totally ok for your proposal to be rejected if the community feels the idea is not needed now or having gaps. Not all ideas are as good as it looks at the first glance, with less context. Sometimes it's not good time for it either.It's better to explicitly oppose it than to ignore it and leave it in limbo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: It's totally ok for your proposal to be rejected if the community feels the idea is not needed now or having gaps. Not all ideas are as good as it looks at the first glance, with less context. Sometimes it's not a good time for it either.It's better to explicitly oppose it than to ignore it and leave it in limbo.
```

> ## Why we have Proposal Process?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Why do we have a Proposal Process?
```

See rationales in our [proposal for proposal process](../proposals-done/202106-proposals-process.md)

## Template:

## Your Proposal Title

* **Owners:**
  * `<@author: single champion for the moment of writing>`

* **Related Tickets:**
  * `<JIRA, GH Issues>`

* **Other docs:**
  * `<Links…>`

> > TL;DR: Give here a short summary of what this document is proposing and what components it is touching.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> TL;DR: Give a summary of what this document is proposing and what components it is touching.
```

>
> *For example: This design doc is proposing a consistent design template for “example.com” organization.*

## Why

> Put here a motivation behind the change proposed by this design document, give context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Give a motivation behind the change proposed by this design document, provide context.
```

*For example: It’s important to clearly explain the reasons behind certain design decisions in order to have a consensus between team members, as well as external stakeholders. Such a design document can also be used as a reference and knowledge-sharing purposes. That’s why we are proposing a consistent style of the design document that will be used for future designs.*

### Pitfalls of the current solution

What specific problems are we hitting with the current solution? Why it’s not enough?

*For example, We were missing a consistent design doc template, so each team/person was creating their own. Because of inconsistencies, those documents were harder to understand, and it was easy to miss important sections. This was causing certain engineering time to be wasted.*

## Goals

Goals and use cases for the solution as proposed in [How](#how):

* Allow easy collaboration and decision making on design ideas.
* Have a consistent design style that is readable and understandable.
* Have a design style that is concise and covers all the essential information.

### Audience

> If not clear, the target audience that this change relates to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If this is not clear already, provide the target audience for this change.
```
